# TM_LPG-MIX

This repository provides a KiCad schematic and PCB layout for a variant of the TM-LPG-X expander (https://github.com/morganmcw/TM-LPG-X) and the orignal Turing Machine Vactrol Mix expander (https://github.com/TomWhitwell/TuringMixExpander).

It includes the variation switches of the TM-LPG-X, but can be built using capacitors (LPG), resistors (Mix) or with a pin header to allow switching between LPG or Mix mode via a front panel switch (with the resistors and capacitors mounted on the switch).

In their original forms an LPG module would be connected to the Turing Machine PULSES header and a Mix module to the GATES header. This design includes a daughter board which allows both headers to be connected simultaneously. The active connection is selected by a switch or a gate voltage input (the gate input is only active when the switch is OFF).

Taken together, these features allow the unit to be built as a TM-LPG-X, a Turing Machine Vactrol Mix with variation switches, or as a fully configurable combination of the two. Experience since first completing this project has shown that the combination of home made vactrols using ultrabright red LEDs and GL5528 LDRs with 220nF capacitors for C5 and C6 leads to such a rapid decay that the low-pass gate effect is essentially inaudible, though it is visible on an oscilloscope. Reducing the value of these capacitors to 10nF give a decay time in the region of 0.5 - 1 second which is much more suitable for an LPG. In a similar way, the decay time in Mix mode can be increased by using resistors with a value greater than 10k in place of the capacitors. 47k in Mix mode gives a similar decay time to the 10nF capacitors in LPG mode. A very interesting further extension would be to use resistor (10k?) / potentiometer (20-50k?) combinations in place of the fixed 'Mix' resistors, and a 2-pole 3-way or 4-way switch to select the LPG capacitor values (e.g. 100, 47, 10 & 4.7nF) in order to make the decay time adjustable in both modes. I'll be testing this possible ehancement shortly.

The PCB layout file uses a custom footprint for the vactrols and a custom model for the 3D viewer. There are included in the TM_LPG-MIX folder - you will have to move them to appropriate locations and tell KiCad where to find them. The PCB design is intended to be processed using the kicad-round-tracks add-on (https://github.com/mitxela/kicad-round-tracks). The schematic also includes a custom audio jack symbol, so I've included both the cache-lib file for the project and a copy of my customised symbols lbrary.

This design is Creative Commons Licensed by Chris Earnshaw: CC-BY-SA - inherited from the parent designs.
